Problem Statement
In this case study, we will take you through some of the common ways to tackle business problems using Apache Spark.

 

Julian McAuley’s lab at Stanford University, as part of their research, collected 80 million Amazon reviews from 1995 to 2013. This mammoth dataset is divided into different categories.

 

(The size of this dataset exemplifies the usefulness of Spark. Your local R setup would be stressed under the weight of this dataset, but Spark manages to breeze through it.)
 

Problem Statement

 

Say you are a manager at a media company and want to start a new product line to boost your revenue. Being a media company, you want to get into either ebooks, movies, TV shows or similar such product categories in the entertainment industry. 

 

Since you are starting a new product line, you want to be sure about the choice of products you’ll buy (and sell). You have three options of product categories to choose from - CDs and Vinyl, Movies and Ebooks (Kindle).

 

Specifically, you want to use the gigantic dataset to identify:

Which product category has a larger market size

Which product category is likely to be purchased heavily

Which product category is likely to make the customers happy after the purchase

 

Since you do not have the actual sales data of the products, you will have to use some ‘proxy-metrics’ to estimate the aforementioned metrics.

 

For example, you can use the ‘number of reviews’ as a proxy for the number of products sold (i.e. the ratio of number of reviews of two product categories will reflect, approximately, the ratio of the number of units sold - you are not trying to estimate the absolute numbers anyway, you want to compare the metrics across categories).

 

Using similar logic, to estimate the market size, you can use the number of reviewers as a proxy.

 

Similarly, you can define some metrics to proxy customer satisfaction as well. For instance, if a customer has written a long review and rated the product 5, it indicates that he/she is quite happy with the product.

 

In short, you are trying to use data about reviews to estimate some key metrics, which will help you identify the product category you should be investing in.